We now have approvals, we talked
about evals, we talked about rag,
these are all things that I think you need
in a production ready system that move
beyond just prototype.
In fact, if all you ever did was evals and
nothing else,
you would be doing better than 99%
of the stuff that's out there.
In my opinion, I cannot tell you how
many products are in production,
paid products that when you use them,
they do not work [LAUGH].
And these are paid products,
because that's just the state of things,
everything worked well on my machine
until I pushed it up to AWS, and
now it doesn't work well.
That's just how it is, so just knowing how
to eval, you're already ahead of the game,
in my opinion, I learned evals late.
Okay, let's talk about memory management,
so we have a problem with our messages.
They're going to become too big and we
won't be able to talk to our chat anymore.
Let's see if I can simulate that,
I was gonna write a script to do it, but
then I just fell off [LAUGH] so we'll just
copy and paste until that happens, so
what do I mean by that?
Let me find a repeatable section here
that I can copy and paste over and over.
I'll make one, so
let's say I do something like npm start
*hello*
>> Scott Moss: Cool,
that's a good repeatable section,
so then now I can go down here,
and I can say,
I'll copy this part right here.
Actually, let me put a comma here so
that way it'll do that too,
I'll copy this and then I'll just do this.
>> Scott Moss: I almost had a bunch,
this thing takes way more tokens than
I thought it was gonna take, but
eventually you will run out of memory, and
it will be like, sorry, can't help you.
Those are too many tokens, so
what do you do at that point?
Well, you could just reset the chat,
you could just do this,
you could just go up here,
I mean, I'll just do this, hold up.
You just reset the chat like this and
that will for sure work, right?
Well, what do you lose when you do that?
>> Student: Everything.
>> Scott Moss: You lose everything,
you lose your entire conversation,
imagine using iMessage or Slack and
before you can send the next message you
got to delete all your previous messages.
That will suck, that's like before they
had cloud storage with your photos you
want to take this photo on your camera?
[LAUGH] But upload these photos first and
pay us five bucks,
so that would be terrible,
we don't want that.
The other alternative is, what people
do is, chat apps like ChatGPT or
Cloud will just encourage you
to start a new chat window,
which is essentially starting over,
but in a new chat window.
Cloud is famous for it, they'll even warn
you when you're getting close to like,
hey, you're getting close,
you might want to make a new chat, right?
So that's the thing, you don't want to do
that, so, you want to implement different
strategies, so
that's what we're gonna do today.
The first strategy is called window
slicing, this is super basic, and
we'll do some version of that today.
It's essentially just don't
return all the messages,
just return a subset of the messages.
It can be by like a number of messages,
it can be by number of tokens,
however you want to do it.
You just create a window of messages,
most likely the most recent ones up until
a certain point, whether it's a certain
token count or a certain message count.
That's all you show, so
your AI has really good,
short to medium term memory,
but not long term memory.
Basically, it don't know what the hell
you said you know, 30,000 tokens ago, or
something like that, or
whatever your token limit was.
So that's one way,
summarization based management,
which is what we're also gonna do is,
you do maintain a window of
recent messages, so in this case,
very similar to this,
you only show the last X amount of tokens,
last X amount of messages.
And then periodically,
you summarize the older messages
that you would have evicted.
So in this case, if we're only
gonna show the last 200 messages,
we want to summarize the ones
we would have got rid of, right?
Once you summarize that, you put that
summary into the system prompt of like,
hey, here's the conversation so
far that has happened.
And then the AI understands that summary
plus the new messages that you sent,
so we'll be doing something like that.
You also have like
hierarchical summarization, so
this is like getting really into it.
Like when you summarize it,
you're like here's the immediate
thing that we just talked about.
Here's something that we talked about
recently, and here's this like forever.
You just need to know this about this,
this person or this conversation.
This is like a fact about them, it's their
shoe size, it's like their favorite color.
Whatever it is, you just need to
know this, this is like a fact,
you could do topic based segmentation,
so, group them by different topics.
Here's different topics that mean you and
this person have had a conversation
about group those things,
and then you have advanced techniques, so
whether or not something is important.
So not only you're summarizing it,
you're trying to figure out if this
information is even important,
because maybe most of the stuff that they
said is just stuff that doesn't matter.
So really only to keep
the stuff that's important, so
you give those things
scores of importance, and
you only retain the things that have like
high scores, or maybe they last longer.
So when you start evicting things or
getting rid of stuff out of your summaries
and your messages, you only get
rid of things with low scores.
So that could be pretty cool,
compressed contact storage.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
don't do this [LAUGH] why put this here?
This one is a little more advanced,
so it's basically just
like taking entities and
random important keywords and
things that stand out, and
only keeping those things.
It's not really that relevant,
I don't think it really helps that much.
You can do dynamic window sizing, like
a hash table where you change the window
size depending on some behavior,
some threshold, or something like that.
The last thing that I didn't put here is
you would actually just use rack for this,
we put those movies in
the vector database.
You could just put those messages
in a vector database too,
give it a tool to say, query chat history.
And then if someone asked the agent
something about something they said weeks
ago, they could go query that
vector database and be like, yeah,
I found our conversation that we had
a week ago about this, here you go, right?
You can find that, so you can do that as
well, and as you can see, a combination of
all these things, plus things I didn't
even mention because I'm not aware of.
There's really no good answer for this,
what I do in production is three things.
I limit you with a window,
I record facts about you so
if you have a fact that you
mentioned like I prefer this or
I like this or this is something about me.
I have a tool that understands
that you're giving it a fact, and
it saves that fact in the database, and
then I also summarize the conversation so.
Summarizing the conversation,
putting that in there, putting the facts
in the system prompt and then only showing
you a window typically is good enough.
Now, what the AI sees and what the user
sees are two different things,
the user can scroll up indefinitely and
see every message from the dawn of time,
but the AI is only going
to see this window.